.. post:: 2016-04-08
   :tags: update
   :author: me
   :location: Brussels, Belgium

***************************************
CWL Community Engineer Six Month Update
***************************************

Hello everyone. It has been a while since my last update. Here is what has been
happening in the CWL world since I began full time work for the project.

Draft 3 was released and the community has committed to releasing 1.0 of the
standards before ISMB. I will be the release driver.

I met with potential fiscal sponsor, the Software Freedom Conservancy, and
submitted application for the CWL project to become part of their 501(c)(3).

I've been taking full advantage of my base in Europe (first Romania and now
Belgium) to raise and enhanced the perception of CWL in the European life science
computing community. I presented at two leading centers (SciLifeLab in
Stockholm, Flanders ExaScience Lab in Belgium) and I participated in four
ELIXIR sponsored hackathons: Amsterdam, Netherlands; Freiburg, Germany;
Copenhagen, Denmark; and Trondheim, Norway.

A CWL subgroup of academic cluster users are figuring out what changes are
needed to support non-containerized tool execution. Non-cloud support
for CWL will be critical for wider adoption. I have enjoyed coordinating this
group and I was able to host a visiting Australian graduate student (Kevin
Murray) who has gotten Docker containers to work on older platforms without
needing to upgrade them or use ``root`` privileges.

The CWL is spreading into the wider F/OSS tech world thanks to a partnership
with the Debian-Med community, the leading community packagers of bioinformatic
tools and workflows. In support of this partnership I applied for and received
official status within that community (“Debian Maintainer”) and I have an
application for full status (“Debian Developer”) in progress.

Roman Valls Guimera and I have started a sub project to automatically produce
CWL descriptions for those Python tools who use Python’s standard argument
parser. This is now a Google Summer of Code project that will hopefully
get their support for a student to work on over the summer.

Speaking of GSoC, I agreed to co-mentor (with Stian Soiland-Reyes) another
student's project to add CWL support to the Apache Taverna project.

New Implementations & SDKs:
Paul Gross's Java re-implementation has already found a couple issue with the
specifications and fixes have been incorporated. 

Sketched out plan for using Peter Amstutz’s “schema salad” tool to
auto-generate code for representing the CWL object model in as many different
languages as we care for. This is a critical first step to having autogenerated
SDKs in multiple languages.

Reference implementation improvements:
Finished review of Peter Amstutz’s ‘cwltool’ and ‘schema salad’. I am maturing
his work by adding Python 3 compatibility, type checking, code cleanups, and
documentation.

Other CWL impacts:
Sent letter of support for Dr. Bernhard Renard, Robert Koch Institute
(Germany), and his “Collaborative Benchmarking of Bioinformatics Tools and
Workflows (CoBe)” project which uses CWL as a core technology.

GA4GH container registry API project: CWL a key component and seen as a leader
on the metadata issue; many CWL community members participate in their weekly call

Logo acquired, Twitter account created, domain name purchased.

Continuous testing of CWL implementations. Peter Amstutz and I have setup
https://ci.commonwl.org to testing the conformance of CWL implementations on a
continuous basis.

